Document the automated release process (#91)
ansible-community/images: docs/community-ee/community-ee-release-process.md

##  Credentials

    - Access to  https://github.com/ansible-community/images repo
    - Access to ghcr.io

> ## Pre Requisite:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

>       - Join [Release Management working Matrix room](https://app.element.io/?updated=1.11.38#/room/#release-management:ansible.com) and [Execution Envs group in Forum Group](https://forum.ansible.com/g/ExecutionEnvs).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - Join the [Release Management working group](https://forum.ansible.com/g/release-managers) and [Execution Environment group](https://forum.ansible.com/g/ExecutionEnvs).
```

>       - Read about the Ansible Execution Environment in [here](https://forum.ansible.com/t/execution-environments-getting-started-guide-community-ee-images-availability/1341) and in [this](https://forum.ansible.com/t/execution-environments-getting-started-guide-community-ee-images-availability/1341) Forum Post.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - Understand [Ansible execution environments](https://forum.ansible.com/t/execution-environments-getting-started-guide-community-ee-images-availability/1341).
```

>       - Read about  Github workflow `.github/workflows/eerelease.yml` .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - Read about the [eerelease.yml](/.github/workflows/eerelease.yml)  GitHub workflow.
```

      - Show intention and book the date for the releasing of the EE.

## Announcement before the release

>   Post this message in the channel before working on the release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Post this message in the channel before working on the release, using the correct release number.
```

  ```

>   📯📯📯 I am working on the `Ansible Execution Environment Base and Minimal 2.17.1-1` Release. I will keep the room updated about the progress.📦️

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  📯📯📯 I am working on the `Ansible Execution Environment Base and Minimal 2.x.y-1` Release. I will keep the room updated about the progress.📦️
```

  ```

## Actual Build Steps :

### On the terminal

>       - Check the ansible-core version [here](https://pypi.org/project/ansible-core/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - Check the most recent [ansible-core version](https://pypi.org/project/ansible-core/)
```

>       - Verify ansible collection versions for ansible.posix, ansible.utils and  ansible.windows for `deps` file of the ansible version for the related release  [ansible-build-data repo](https://github.com/ansible-community/ansible-build-data).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - Verify ansible collection versions for ``ansible.posix``, ``ansible.utils`` and  ``ansible.windows`` for `deps` file of the Ansible community package version for the related release  in the [ansible-build-data repo](https://github.com/ansible-community/ansible-build-data).
```

      - Go to the images/execution-environments directory.
      - Create the correct `git branch` (name it in the related version eg: 2.17.1-1)

        ```
            cd images/execution-environments
            git checkout main
            git pull upstream main
            git checkout -b coreversion-eeversion

        ```

      - Update the ansible-core and collection versions in the  `/images/execution-environments/community-ee-base/execution-environment.yml` file.
      - Update the ansible-core version in the  `/images/execution-environments/community-ee-minimal/execution-environment.yml` file, commit the changes and create a PR.

        ```

>             vim community-ee-base/execution-environment.yml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            vim community-ee-base/execution-environment.yml
```

Reviewer: Maybe it's unnecessary to suggest vim here. You risk opening up the vim vs emacs can of worms. People get attached to their editors. You could just say "Open `community-ee-base/execution-environment.yml` for editing and then do:

            git add -u
            git status
            git commit -m "Updates ansible-core & collection versions for Base and Minimal"
            git push origin branch_name
        ```

>       - Once the PR is merged, it is the time to start with the github action workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Once the PR is merged, it is the time to start with the github workflow.
```

> ### On your browser :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Triggering the release workflow
```

>       - Go to the [ansible-community/images](https://github.com/ansible-community/images) repo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Go to the [ansible-community/images](https://github.com/ansible-community/images) repo.
```

>       - Click on the ![`Actions`](action-workflow-block.png) to open the `Workflows`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Click on the ![`Actions`](action-workflow-block.png) tab to view the available workflows.
```

Reviewer: I'd recommend removing the screengrabs here. We don't really need to document a third-party UI.

>       - Go to the `Release Ansible Excution Environment` and click on the ![`Run Workflow` Dropdown Button](docs/community-ee/dropdown-workflow.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Go to the `Release Ansible Execution Environment` workflow and then select ![`Run Workflow`](docs/community-ee/dropdown-workflow.png).
```

>       - Click on the Drop down Button and choose the type of the Execution Environment, (whether it is `community-ee-base` and `community-ee-minimal`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - Click on the Drop down Button and choose the type of the Execution Environment, (whether it is `community-ee-base` or `community-ee-minimal`)
```

>       - Write down the version of execution environment (to be appended to the ansible-core version) .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - Write down the patch number of execution environment (to be appended to the ansible-core version) .
      This is typically 1.
```

      -  Check on the button if this is `latest` release of  the particular execution environment
      -  Click on the ![`Run workflow` button](docs/community-ee/workflow_block.png) to run the workflow

>       - After the successful run of the workflow, go on and check if the image is published in  [here](https://github.com/orgs/ansible-community/packages/container) and get the sha256 sum of the published image (to be used in the announcement).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - After the successful run of the workflow, go on and check if the [image is published](https://github.com/orgs/ansible-community/packages/container) and get the sha256 sum of the published image (to be used in the announcement).
```

>       - Make the announcement in the #release-management and #community-working-group Matrix room, Forum and Bullhorn following the `docs/community-ee/community-ee-announcement.md` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Make the announcement in the #release-management and #community-working-group Matrix room, Forum, and Bullhorn according to the instructions in `docs/community-ee/community-ee-announcement.md`.
```

##  Credentials

    - Access to  https://github.com/ansible-community/images repo
    - Access to ghcr.io

## Prerequisites

>       - Join the [Release Management working group](https://forum.ansible.com/g/release-managers) and [Execution Environment group](https://forum.ansible.com/g/ExecutionEnvs).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Join the [Release Management working group](https://forum.ansible.com/g/release-managers) and [Execution Environment group](https://forum.ansible.com/g/ExecutionEnvs).
```

>       - Understand [Ansible execution environments](https://forum.ansible.com/t/execution-environments-getting-started-guide-community-ee-images-availability/1341).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Understand [Ansible execution environments](https://forum.ansible.com/t/execution-environments-getting-started-guide-community-ee-images-availability/1341).
```

>       - Read about the [eerelease.yml](/.github/workflows/eerelease.yml)  GitHub workflow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Read about the [eerelease.yml](/.github/workflows/eerelease.yml)  GitHub workflow.
```

>       - Show intention and book the date for the releasing of the EE.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Show intention and book the date for the releasing of the EE.
```

## Announcement before the release

  Post this message in the channel before working on the release, using the correct release number.

  ```
  📯📯📯 I am working on the `Ansible Execution Environment Base and Minimal 2.x.y-1` Release. I will keep the room updated about the progress.📦️
  ```

## Actual Build Steps :

### On the terminal

>       - Check the most recent [ansible-core version](https://pypi.org/project/ansible-core/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Check the most recent [ansible-core version](https://pypi.org/project/ansible-core/)
```

>       - Verify ansible collection versions for ``ansible.posix``, ``ansible.utils`` and  ``ansible.windows`` for `deps` file of the Ansible community package version for the related release  in the [ansible-build-data repo](https://github.com/ansible-community/ansible-build-data).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Verify ansible collection versions for ``ansible.posix``, ``ansible.utils`` and  ``ansible.windows`` for `deps` file of the Ansible community package version for the related release  in the [ansible-build-data repo](https://github.com/ansible-community/ansible-build-data).
```

>       - Go to the images/execution-environments directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Go to the images/execution-environments directory.
```

>       - Create the correct `git branch` (name it in the related version eg: 2.17.1-1)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Create the correct `git branch` (name it in the related version eg: 2.17.1-1)
```

        ```
            cd images/execution-environments
            git checkout main
            git pull upstream main
            git checkout -b coreversion-eeversion

        ```

>       - Update the ansible-core and collection versions in the  `/images/execution-environments/community-ee-base/execution-environment.yml` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Update the ansible-core and collection versions in the  `/images/execution-environments/community-ee-base/execution-environment.yml` file.
```

      - Update the ansible-core version in the  `/images/execution-environments/community-ee-minimal/execution-environment.yml` file, commit the changes and create a PR.

        ```
            vim community-ee-base/execution-environment.yml
            git add -u
            git status
            git commit -m "Updates ansible-core & collection versions for Base and Minimal"
            git push origin branch_name
        ```

>       - Once the PR is merged, it is the time to start with the github workflow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the PR is merged, it is the time to start with the github workflow.
```

### Triggering the release workflow

>       - Go to the [ansible-community/images](https://github.com/ansible-community/images) repo.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to the [ansible-community/images](https://github.com/ansible-community/images) repo.
```

>       - Click on the ![`Actions`](action-workflow-block.png) tab to view the available workflows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click on the ![`Actions`](action-workflow-block.png) tab to view the available workflows.
```

>       - Go to the `Release Ansible Execution Environment` workflow and then select ![`Run Workflow`](docs/community-ee/dropdown-workflow.png).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Go to the `Release Ansible Execution Environment` workflow and then select ![`Run Workflow`](docs/community-ee/dropdown-workflow.png).
```

>       - Click on the Drop down Button and choose the type of the Execution Environment, (whether it is `community-ee-base` or `community-ee-minimal`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Click on the Drop down Button and choose the type of the Execution Environment, (whether it is `community-ee-base` or `community-ee-minimal`)
```

>       - Write down the patch number of execution environment (to be appended to the ansible-core version) .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Write down the patch number of execution environment (to be appended to the ansible-core version) .
```

      This is typically 1.

>       -  Check on the button if this is `latest` release of  the particular execution environment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Check on the button if this is `latest` release of  the particular execution environment
```

>       -  Click on the ![`Run workflow` button](docs/community-ee/workflow_block.png) to run the workflow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Click on the ![`Run workflow` button](docs/community-ee/workflow_block.png) to run the workflow
```

>       - After the successful run of the workflow, go on and check if the [image is published](https://github.com/orgs/ansible-community/packages/container) and get the sha256 sum of the published image (to be used in the announcement).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. After the successful run of the workflow, go on and check if the [image is published](https://github.com/orgs/ansible-community/packages/container) and get the sha256 sum of the published image (to be used in the announcement).
```

>       - Make the announcement in the #release-management and #community-working-group Matrix room, Forum, and Bullhorn according to the instructions in `docs/community-ee/community-ee-announcement.md`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. Make the announcement in the #release-management and #community-working-group Matrix room, Forum, and Bullhorn according to the instructions in `docs/community-ee/community-ee-announcement.md`.
```
